I'm Noah and I'm Ben and you're
listening to Product Journey.
Hi folks, today we got Justin
Jackson on the podcast.
He is the co-founder of Trans
istor, which is a podcasting
hosting company.
He's also the founder of MegaM
aker, a community for founders
and of course, avid podcast
lover
and listener.
Hi Justin.
Hey, how's it going?
It's nice to be here.
Thanks for coming on Justin.
I listen to the show every week
so it's fun to finally talk to
people that you only hear
talking to you.
Yes, same actually.
Yeah.
Stuck to have you.
Yeah, we can kind of finally
make this one by one connection
.
Now we can just like talk
actually together instead of, "
Oh you listen then I'll listen."
Yeah, totally.
It's funny also because I've
seen Ben before.
We've never talked, but I had
to come up with a vision in my
head of what Noah looked like
and now I can actually see.
Oh that's good.
For the rest of the listeners
at home, they don't know yet,
but now I know.
I'm a part of the secret club.
Yeah was it what you expected?
Well usually, I've been podcast
ing since 2012 and usually I'm
the disappointment when people
meet me in person.
They go, "I thought you'd be a
lot taller."
Yeah, I feel like that always
happens when you hear someone's
voice.
If it's deeper, you kind of
depict a certain kind of person
in your mind or if it's, yeah,
it just depends on the voice
and then usually it's always
ignored what you're thinking.
Yeah.
See if I had to guess, I'd
guess that Noah is about six
feet tall and I'm going to
guess
Ben is about the same height as
me.
I'm five foot eight.
How did I do?
So you're pretty good.
I'm six foot three.
Okay.
I'm trying to calculate
centimeters to foot right now.
Oh yeah.
See this is the weird Canadian
thing is that we use the metric
system, but we are so close
to the US that we end up doing
measurements in inches.
So I'm almost exactly six foot
tall.
Oh, you're almost exactly six
feet.
Okay.
See now everybody knows,
everybody's just adjusted.
You may know mine.
Maybe you should just attach
images to the show notes so
photos of us.
I think every podcast show
notes needs to have stats on
people.
Noah, six foot three.
Ben.
Yeah.
60, how many centimeters is
that?
It's 185 or 186.
185 centimeters.
Yeah.
Give people some stats.
That's what they want to hear.
Blue eyes, dark, blondish,
pretty blonde hair.
Form a picture.
So yeah, so we're glad to have
you on the show, Justin.
Two topics that we're kind of
interested in that I know you
talk a decent amount about
is like audience building and
like your market and starting
with a market instead of an
idea.
So we kind of wanted to jump
into both those two topics and
just kind of dig deeper into
that.
Perfect.
It's like my favorite thing to
talk about right now.
Yeah.
I think some people are getting
sick of me talking about it,
but I just can't stop thinking
about it.
So it's what naturally kind of
comes out.
And actually, we had a question
about that kind of like with
building an audience.
That was one of the things we
're interested in.
Do you ever feel like you run
out of new things to say?
I mean, one thing that's been
helpful for me is that since
2013, we've had this online
community with Mega Maker.
And so people are interacting
and asking questions all the
time.
And those discussions often
inspire my thinking of, oh,
wait a second.
It's actually like a lot of my
tweets come out of
conversations that I've had
inside
of Mega Maker or things I'm
listening to on a podcast or
even things I've read in a book
.
You know, I'm reading something
It brings up these thoughts.
And I treat Twitter kind of
like the local comedy club, you
know, where you go and test
out material.
And she's like, OK, I'm going
to try this out and see how it
lands.
And it's also just a helpful
way for me to process my
thinking.
So no, I haven't run out of
things to talk about yet.
I do have moments like John and
I are doing our podcast now.
And I think we're ready for the
year to be done in some ways,
you know, like ready for
things to kind of wind down.
And so I think there's such
thing as fatigue when you're
publishing something every week
and you eventually need to give
your brain space to just
explore, you know, other things
and have other ideas.
But yeah, not most of the time,
as long as I'm interacting with
people and real life
situations and also doing
experiments in my own life, I
don't have run out of anything
to say yet.
Yeah, I could see the fatigue
in that, like, you feel like
you're you have to have
something
to say, like at least every
week when you have the podcast,
like you have to have a new
thing that you're thinking
about or that you can dive into
.
Yeah, we've definitely kind of
seen that.
I think this is what that's why
breaks are important.
I almost get this more with
because podcasting, you can
just turn on the mics and if
you
have a rough idea of where you
want to go, you can talk it out
.
But writing, I find is a lot
more takes a lot more of my
energy.
And so like writing that weekly
newsletter that I write is
there are definitely weeks
where that is tough.
Not because I don't have an
idea, but sometimes to process
ideas and actually write it in
a way that makes sense is hard.
But yeah, in either case,
breaks are good.
I can't always say I'm
receiving that newsletter and
you're doing pretty good, I
guess.
At least I'm enjoying it.
That almost gives me more
pressure because then I'm like,
"Oh, I like it.
I got to keep going."
Yeah.
When that came down now.
In that case, I hated it every
time.
So we got a couple of questions
about audience and I think I
have a pretty interesting one
that is what makes a good
audience and do you think that
you should like, do you think
you have to be part of your
audience?
Do you have to feel comfortable
among the people?
So I've actually changed my
tune a little bit on this.
I think now if you're starting
a business, the market is the
most important thing, the
market you choose.
And when I say market, I don't
mean market as in just a ident
ifiable group of people.
I'm talking about a group of
people that buys X. So the
diamond market last year was 4.
billion or something like that.
To me, that's a market.
It's a market where you can see
people in motion preferably
buying something, but sometimes
it's just people in motion
doing something.
And everything kind of hinges
on that which market you are in
.
So as an example, Taylor Ott
well is the founder of Laravel,
which is the most popular PHP
programming framework in the
world.
He has a huge audience.
If you look at his audience,
quote unquote, on Twitter, he's
got hundreds of thousands
of followers.
Let's just check because I don
't want people to be.
So Ottwell, he has 82,000
followers on Twitter.
So for a lot of people, that
would be a big audience.
And if you go to LaraCon, you
see he's got 800 people in the
audience.
And he has tons of people
buying his stuff.
He has millions of people using
Laravel.
But all of that is in the
context of a bigger market.
It's hard to count the number
of programmers in the world,
but let's just say a reasonable
estimate is that there's 5
million PHP programmers in the
world.
Would you agree with that, Ben?
Yeah, definitely.
I've actually used Laravel for
a couple of projects.
Okay, there you go.
And so 5 million PHP
programmers in the world.
And let's just take one element
of that market, not including
all the tools they buy, not
including everything else that
you need to be a programmer.
Let's just think about salary.
And these are just guesses.
But let's say on average, an
average PHP programmer in the
world makes $25,000 a year.
Well 25,000 times 5 million is
$125 billion, I think.
That's $125 billion being spent
on salaries for PHP developers
alone.
That's a massive market.
It's not just a big group of
people, but it's also a big
group of people where there's
some
sort of economic activity being
generated.
I think it's why products in
the Laravel community often
have a magnified impact
compared to other
things.
So, I have a course called
Marketing for Developers that
did pretty good.
That's like if you take all of
the developers in the world and
then you ask how many of
those developers want to learn
marketing, it's a much smaller
slice, right?
How many developers in the
world are PHP developers that
want to make their jobs better?
Well that's probably 5 million.
And so you can compare results
and you can see that kind of
everything hinges on the
market.
How big your audience can be
within that market and then all
the multiples all kind of
depend
on that.
So, how much money is being
spent in that market already
and how much of that can you
carve off for yourself?
Taylor, presumably, he's only
carved off a little bit of the
PHP market.
There's still other frameworks.
There's still programmers that
don't know or use Laravel.
So, he's still got plenty of
room to grow as well.
But even then, Taylor Ottwell
as a solo person has sold $10
million worth of software to
PHP developers.
That's pretty crazy.
That's insane.
And he just recently took on
employees.
So, there's funded startups in
San Francisco right now that
have millions of dollars in
funding, staff of 50 people and
they haven't sold $10 million
worth of software.
I think the market that you're
in determines everything.
And when you have what Corey G
wynn calls demonstrated demand,
so you can actually see the
demand
that's kind of what you're
looking for.
You're looking for people in
motion, a large group of people
in motion who are where there's
economic activity being
generated from whatever they're
doing.
So, you would basically say
start out with the market, try
to find a market that you
want to work in and then start
building an audience around
that.
Don't worry as much about do
you feel comfortable in that
audience or those kind of
things.
I mean, this is where it gets
tricky.
This is why business is so hard
because you apply all of these
filters to get to where
you want to go.
So, it's not enough to just be
in a good market.
You actually have to be
interested in that market.
You have to have good founder
market fit.
You have to then be able to
identify some sort of need in
that market.
You have to actually execute on
some things and make some sort
of connection.
I don't think you have to
necessarily build an audience.
But you get a lot of leverage
from who you know and who knows
you.
Who you know is just making
connections.
We're making connections right
now.
Now the three of us know each
other.
Even the fact that we've been
on a phone call makes it a lot
easier for me to ask a favor
of you in the future or for you
to ask a favor of me.
That's networking.
That's who you know.
Who knows you is the audience
effect.
That could be very helpful.
But there are people who have
built businesses without doing
that.
Ruben Gammes is a good example
of someone who's just built a
software business almost purely
on search engine results and
optimizing search engine
results.
I think it's one of the levers
you can use.
I think without any sort of
human connection it's very
difficult.
So you do have to connect with
other human beings.
This is why it's helpful to be
interested in the market you're
in.
Sometimes it can even that can
be enough.
I'm really interested in the
Laravel community.
I'm not really a Laravel
developer but I've spoken at
their conference three times.
I really like the people and I
would say I'm part of the
community even though I'm not
like a power user of Laravel.
There has to be something that
draws you to that market.
keeps you there and you're
probably going to need some
sort
of connection with some key
people in that market to make
it work.
How you get there is kind of
the individual journey.
I'm almost 40 now.
It's very difficult to say what
are the 10 steps that brought
you to transistor because
it's like layer on layer on
layer of my life going back to
when I was a kid.
And so all of those steps up
till now lead me to where I'm
at now.
I think you can optimize for
some of those things like where
you point yourself in life
has a big determination of
where you'll end up.
I think the connections you
make matter a lot.
I think what you put out into
the world matters a lot.
So podcasting, blogging, public
speaking, but even just
anything not open source
projects,
anything you put out into the
world can help.
But in terms of like adding all
those up and going OK what
really matters a lot harder to
figure that out.
Yeah, I think that's a pretty
interesting point because when
we started out with a podcast
I think we were both on the
track of we should build an
audience.
And it's kind of like we're
shifting away from that a
little bit.
And just recently came across
this tweet from Jane Portman
and I think Rob Walling, Jane
Portman from UserList who were
also talking about that, like
how they didn't really need
an audience.
But basically it just fits very
well to what you just said I
guess.
And there's one more thing that
I would like to get your
opinion on because you're
probably
familiar with Derek Reimer and
what happened with Level, right
?
It's kind of like do you feel
like having an audience might
not always be not necessary
but also maybe lead to false
positives?
Oh definitely, yeah.
And it can be really helpful
too.
There's to say that my audience
didn't help in launching Trans
istor would be disingenuous.
Like that it definitely helped.
It still helps.
But there is a risk because
what you're looking for is you
're looking for some sort of
momentum,
right?
And when you launch something
you're trying to gauge what
kind of response is this
getting.
So when Apple releases the new
iPhone how many people are
lined up outside of the Apple
store, right?
Now this Apple actually can
fall prey to this because they
've got all these mega fans,
right?
That are going to line up day
one no matter what.
So you could see these huge
lineups and you could go oh wow
like the new iPhone is a big
success but unless the rest of
the world shows up then it's
not going to be a success,
right?
So yeah that's a pretty good
analogy.
Yeah lineups on day one I mean
they are helpful but they can
also you know like I've
launched
things I think still to this
day my best launch ever was for
this I was doing this online
series on product marketing and
like the first couple weeks
tons of people showed up and
when I started asking them what
are you hoping to achieve you
know out of this what brought
you here they said oh I'm just
a big fan I just get everything
that you put out and
that's nice but it became
really clear in the coming
months that no one else cared
and
that's the disadvantage of
having an audience when people
are really kind of invested in
your journey they're going to
show up no matter what they're
going to show up just because
they have a personal connection
to you but ultimately if you're
going to run a business
you need people who are going
to show up and then more people
who are going to show up
and then more people are going
to show up right and this is
actually why I think the
market you choose matters so
much and what I've gotten into
some public disagreements
with people who could be right
I mean they these are my
friends and people I respect
but the idea of going after a
small niche I think and again
maybe people are I don't
know the idea of going after
small niche is just you're
limiting yourself to let's say
a pool of 5000-10,000 people
well that's like going to a
little tiny stream and trying
to
like scoop up a little bit of
water from a tiny stream as
opposed to going after a big
massive market in motion that's
like going to a rushing river
and just putting your cup
in the river and just like
scooping out a and sure you
might be able to fill up your
cup just you know at a small
little stream but the rushing
river has so much water that
it's a lot easier for a solo
bootstrapper to just put their
cup in the river and then
scoop up a bunch of water and I
think sometimes this idea of
niche is leads people to the
wrong places they're just
looking for these tiny streams
that no one else has ever
discovered
before where you know and they
say well we got to avoid the
big rivers because everyone
knows about those yeah but it's
a lot easier to get your cup in
a big river and scoop up
some water than find this tiny
little thing that nobody knows
exists yeah and the end
your cup is bigger than the
river exactly yeah I think I
wonder if where the kind of
disagreement that you have with
people about that idea really
just comes from like the
end goal with what people want
to do with their business
because basically where I hear
kind of what you're saying I
guess the opposite of what you
say in that you know find a
niche
market the advice that I have
typically seen that from is
places like why Combinator or
startups that are really trying
to do like a go big or go home
kind of business like
I think a good example is Peter
Teal the co-founder PayPal his
book zero to one I don't know
if
you've heard of that or read it
but I mean that's almost his
whole thing is basically
go for the new markets like
that's where you can make
really you can there's a lot of
opportunity to make a huge
business and you know that's
kind of like what you know
PayPal
Facebook some of those giant
companies now did well so yeah
if you're if people that
are saying that kind of vice
are venture capitalists or you
know people that that's their
goal then
I could see that making sense
but like you know for bootstrap
ers I think that is then
very dangerous and so maybe I
don't know I'm just wondering
maybe that's where the
disconnect
is between those different
ideas yeah I think I mean part
of it is probably semantics and
part of it is this is all
really emotional stuff because
the way that you are currently
doing your thing kind of
informs your bias the way that
you've achieved success in the
past informs your bias I mean I
said things at 20 years old
that I don't believe anymore
I said things that 30 years old
and so a lot of this is just
you know what where we're at
and what's working for us right
now and I mean I was on Twitter
this guy Evan Golden was saying
you can stretch the definition
pretty wide it's always easy
to justify you know people are
spending money oh what did he
say he said people are spending
money on tacos everywhere so
this could justify me in
opening a taco stand featuring
dirt
flavored tacos there's lots of
evidence people want to talk us
and Evan's a friend of mine
but these are the kind of
arguments I get into on Twitter
but I think that unfortunately
that's exactly what I do want
to do is I want to say is there
any evidence in this market
of prior demonstrated demand
that's just a great word from
Corey Gwynne and so PayPal
let's take PayPal as an example
what was the market for what
PayPal was doing before PayPal
existed what was massive that
the Western Union like bank
transfer like you know money
transfer market people trying
to pay for things with credit
cards online but having to go
through their credit card
processors and there's all
sorts of friction but there's
tons of evidence
that there was billions of
dollars being spent in that
market already and so it's not
like
PayPal invented anything I mean
sure they created a new way of
doing those things but they
didn't
create the market they were
riding a wave that already
existed they just saw the wave
coming and they built a better
surfboard that you know enabled
them to ride further than
anyone else had at the time and
this is what I'm talking about
is really in some ways
what Evan is saying is like I
am I'm stretching the
definition to say is there any
sort of
prior or existing demonstrated
demand for this thing and I
think you could see that
in almost every major product
launch like the iPhone before
the iPhone was the Blackberry
and the Palm and you know you
can keep going back and back
and back right there's there's
demonstrated demand for these
things even if you look at I
can remember as a kid looking
in catalogs wanting to buy a
portable television right from
Radio Shack or whatever there
was
demand for portable televisions
that were battery operated they
never worked very well
but that there was demonstrated
demand for that thing well a
big part of the iPhone is
just a portable television
right that's at least that's
how my kids use it that it's
like Netflix all day long yeah
definitely now so I think the
point is to look for some
sort of demonstrated demand and
and to think is this a market
in motion is there evidence
that people are doing something
about this right now so yeah
yeah so the the market is
kind of being defined as like a
problem to be a solved or like
a job to be done rather
than I don't know maybe how
like marketers sometimes think
about markets as almost I
feel like they can kind of put
into a box of like a specific
solution or a specific area
in that way so yeah really
focusing from what you're
saying it sounds like yeah
really focusing
on the problem that needs to be
solved is that a big market of
people you know want that
you know mm-hmm yeah yeah yeah
you yes exactly that's okay
that's exactly what I'm talking
about that the there's lots you
can see this with if you go
into product hunt and you find
I run into this all the time
products that are no longer
around there's all these like
dead startups oh yeah and in
almost every case there just
wasn't enough demonstrated
demand for that thing they were
good ideas they they kind of
made sense logically but
if you looked at it and go okay
but who's doing something about
this right now that's
really what's most interesting
about Derek Reimer story is
that once he started talking
to the people on his waiting
list and asking okay well what
are you doing about this
problem
right now yeah and often their
response was well nothing we
haven't done anything but
you haven't searched on Google
for an answer no you haven't
searched the slack extension
store no well that that's a bad
sign if people aren't even
willing to do something free
which
is just search for a solution
how are you going to convince
them to jump over all of
these hurdles and actually take
out their credit card out of
their wallet and pay you
for something and this is
another thing I've maybe had a
hard time to articulate is it
takes so much momentum to get
someone to take out their
credit card that you've got to
be
sure that what you're proposing
is something that they really
really want and really the
only way to to figure that out
the only way to see that
clearly is are they doing
something
about it right now and is there
enough of these people on mass
doing this doing something
about it right now yeah I love
that piece of advice I actually
thought that it's I think
it was actually you said that
like you should go to Twitter
and just search search if
people
are typing something like I don
't know like maybe even using
the derrick rhymer example
like search in Twitter for just
switching away from slick or
switch away from slick and
see how many results you
actually find and there are a
couple I did that for fun but
yeah and I mean that's just
step one right because it's it
's pretty low friction to tweet
your disappointment with
something but at least that's
something and then you know you
would
actually want to talk with
folks and ask them questions
like okay well what caused you
to
switch how long did you think
about switching before it
happened what what did you have
to do internally in your team
to make that switch happen and
that's where you're gonna
get a lot of answers it's one
reasons I I worked for a
project management software
startup
and what I didn't know before I
joined is how hard it is to get
people to switch project
management software and it's
remarkably difficult because
everybody has an opinion on the
team
right the developers one thing
the marketing folks want one
another thing the CTO wants
one thing like it goes around
and around and so you have to
convince not just one person
but ten twenty people to to
make this decision and then the
the other kind of bad sign so
despite how difficult it is to
get people to switch people do
switch all the time and
that's also a bad sign because
they don't just switch once and
then they're satisfied
they switch they try charlo and
then they're like no this didn
't work and then they try
base camp and then like oh that
doesn't work and then they try
Jira like they all end up
in Jira right that's how it
works yeah and so you know when
you actually get into those
real discussions with people
about what is the actual
process look like even you know
a market like project
management it has its own its
own minefield right like there
's
pros and cons and I think for
bootstrapers it's a lot harder
it's why we've seen you
know base camp got in early and
so they've done okay but really
besides base camp everybody
else is venture funded because
you it just costs so much money
and if you get on their
list like people they Jira will
call you they will like they've
got sales people that want
to onboard you right because
they know the only way to push
this through the whole funnel
is to have a lot of kind of
concerted effort doing it so a
lot of these things a lot of
these decisions depend on
whether or not you're bootstra
pping whether or not you're
bootstrapping as a solo founder
because some of these ideas and
markets are just harder
to reach as a bootstrapper or
solo founder right so with that
like in mind and you know
starting with the market I
guess and maybe some ways what
sounds like what you'd say
is basically start with the
market filter like that's the
first filter that you want
to put on of how to basically
choose what problem you're
going to solve how you're going
to do it how do you like it
seems like you know you start
talking to customers start
talking to users it takes a
while before you can really
know what's the right approach
what's the right solution to
actually build what do you do
if that solution ends up being
something that isn't something
that a bootstrapper can do or
it's or it's or maybe it's a
solution
that doesn't use your strengths
you know as a as a founder it
doesn't use your skills
your abilities so how do you
handle that when I guess
starting with a market because
yeah
I mean I guess it in some ways
it kind of goes back to there's
just all these filters
and in some ways all these
things have to align which is
obviously very hard yeah I mean
I think that's just the this is
another unpopular tweet of mine
but it is just and I had to
I had to admit this before I
had any success but what you
kind of have to admit in some
way on one side is we're not
all going to make it and a lot
of people don't like hearing
that but we're not all going to
make it that there's no way
that every single aspiring
entrepreneur
in the world can apply all of
these filters and come out on
the other side and by the
way even if you come out on the
other side and you know like I
have a business now that's
doing pretty well it could
disappear tomorrow every day I
wake up going well maybe today
's
the day it disappears right
because markets change and they
can change really fast and
so there's there's no like
there's nothing really romantic
about starting a business
it's just there's all sorts of
things that have to align for
it to work and a lot of
us aren't going to make it so
you have to hold you have to
hold that on one side well
at the same time on the other
side these things are intention
on the other side you have to
be super optimistic that you're
going to make it and that you
're just going to keep trying
because the other thing I've
seen anecdotally I don't know
if this is scientific but the
people who keep trying who keep
working at it who keep pushing
that ball forward many
of them do make it and so there
's a there's a little bit of how
long can you last how
long can you try it's why a lot
of successful entrepreneurs
actually tend to be
statistically
older because by that point in
your life you've had a bunch of
industry experience so you
know what an industry is you
know you've got connections in
that industry you've seen
the pain points you've seen how
they spend money you know there
's all of this accrued
experience that ends up being
helpful and you know time is
kind of what allows you to
keep pushing right so it's not
saying you shouldn't try in
your 20s but because you
could it could all align right
my friend Nathan Barry is not
even 30 yet and has already
achieved
more as a founder than a lot of
folks but I think you have to
have this idea of well it
might not happen but I'm going
to try and this might be a 10
year project or this might
be a 20 year project and you
almost have to be okay with
that like this just might take
time for everything to align
and the whole time I'm going to
have to be working as if
this will eventually work out
and not just doing the same
thing putting yourself in
new circles getting outside of
your comfort zone I've
described this before as is it
command
and conquer that uses fog of
war where you're just on a map
and everything's dark and you
're
exploring it yeah yeah so if
you think about that as a
metaphor like when you start
out
you're just in that map and all
you can see is around you right
and as you explore more
of the map more and more parts
become illuminated and every
once in a while you'll end up
in
a spot of the map where things
just happen right like you get
a bunch of bounty or you
run into a bunch of enemies or
whatever and it's kind of like
that like you're walking
around for me for example I was
walking around and I just
happened to run into Adam Wath
en
who I had no idea who he was or
anything about him but he ended
up being quite an influential
person in the Laravel community
and that was just me wandering
around the map and hit him
wandering around the map too
and then us meeting each other
and once once I could see like
I've learned tons about a lot
of my thoughts about like
choosing a market first have
been
because of the influence of the
Laravel community and looking
at Taylor and Adam Wathen and
Steve Shogar and Jeffrey Wei
build these crazy businesses
because in my little world
before
I met them you know this is the
way things were done people
like us do things like this
and then I got over into that
area of the map and it was like
this whole new world opened
up that I'd never seen before
and without that world opening
up I don't think I would
have well I don't think a lot
of things would have happened
and so there's clearly you have
to kind of be always doing
things trying things getting
out of your comfort zone
meeting new
people and I think the advice I
would give my kids is just to
explore as much of the
map as you can as early as you
can because the more
exploration you do I think I
stayed
too local too long you know I
grew up in this small little
farming town in Alberta and
then
the big city was Edmonton and I
just spent too much time there
and then you know like
the first time I flew into New
York I was like holy shit like
there's a lot of people
here there's a lot of money
here there's a lot of
businesses here that I've never
even
imagined before and it kind of
expanded my whole world view
and unless you're doing that
work to kind of walk around the
map and discover new areas yeah
I think it'll be harder to
you know to find those markets
to find those ideas.
So I want to go back a little
bit to something you said you
know kind of talking about how
basically this might not work
for all of us and it's very
hard and yeah we all might not
make it through and that's just
kind of the truth of it so like
how do you and I'm just
curious about your situation
like how do you go to your wife
with that and get her on board
for this whole journey of what
we're trying to do because so
that's I'm just curious
because that's definitely
something I know me and my wife
struggle with a lot just with
my last thing and like it is
hard so it's like it's you know
you it's not just you going
on this journey you're bringing
your whole family with you.
Yeah I mean again you probably
don't want to look at the
statistics the statistics are
pretty bad.
Just don't look.
So this podcast has been titled
unpopular opinions.
Unpopular opinions.
That's the joke.
I mean it's just like if you
want the reality the reality is
not good statistically.
I mean clearly I think I think
all entrepreneurs have this
feeling that maybe they can do
it
better than the next guy and
because statistically you know
millions of people start
businesses
but those people are in all
sorts of different places have
all sorts of different leverage
have all sorts of different
privilege you know there's
there's all these factors that
go into you know why a person
becomes a successor not and I
think every entrepreneur feels
like
they've got some secret sauce
that'll make them better than
the next guy.
Oh yeah.
But I mean in my early 20s I
started a couple retail shops
that ended up losing a lot of
money and that was hard to
recover from as a family.
And so that that is just part
of it like if you're going to
be on that.
So that was almost 20 years ago
.
And yeah so now I'm at a place
where you know maybe I've
learned enough lessons that I
've
made enough connections that
things are happening.
But that's a long journey.
That's 10 20 years of of work.
And so yeah I mean I think that
's something you got to consider
with kind of with everything.
I don't think you should kill
yourself in the process.
I think I think I worked
probably too hard a lot of
those years when I didn't need
to
it's just wasted cycles trying
to make something happen you
know you're you're it's far
better
for you to book a ticket to a
conference that you've never
been to then to work 60 70
80 hours a week.
Because at least for me that
the biggest jumps forward have
been because I met somebody
outside of my circle.
I met John Buddha my co-founder
in 2014 at this kind of
experimental technology art
design
festival called XOXO.
And you know I wasn't going to
go initially.
I had to kind of push myself to
get out of the house and
actually go.
So yeah I don't think there's
any easy answers there.
I think you can't stare step
your way up.
You can do something small on
the side and then see if that
evolves into something bigger
and then something bigger and
then something bigger.
Nathan Barry just wrote a piece
on this that I don't fully like
or agree with.
But maybe I don't like it just
because it's the hard truth.
He talks about a series of lad
ders and you know the first
ladder is just like trading
time for money and then you
kind of work up that ladder
right.
You can work yourself up from
making minimum wage up to
making more money per hour.
But then you go to the next
ladder which has higher earning
potential but it's harder.
It's just like OK now you've
got to you're trading time for
money but it's more on your
terms like consulting and so
then you work your way up that
level.
And then there's another ladder
and you know these keep going
and the difficulty with each
ladder goes up and but your
potential in his case he's just
talking about income earning
potential your income earning
potential goes up as well.
And it is a little bit of a
stair step right like you're
moving your way up here and
then
you're like oh well there's
opportunity over here so then
you might take a few steps back
to start here and then build
yourself up here.
And then you look at the next
ladder you go there's more
opportunity over there so then
you go back down and then work
your way up.
Yeah that's all possible.
Money helps if you have in
terms of like having a decent
life it helps if you have a lot
more
cash saved up the more cash you
have saved up the less stress
you have but that's not
always possible either right.
So that the only way I can
think of to alleviate the
stress is to have very low cost
of living
and or a lot of money saved up.
Money that you can risk that
you wouldn't feel bad about
losing.
So and you can even hear this
in John and I's podcast you
know he was working for Cards
Against Humanity when we
started this and he also had
more money saved up than I did
and so my stress level when we
weren't quite yet full time yet
was a lot higher.
I'm just like oh god like do we
got to take investment we got
to try to add three or four
more things on top of this to
make this work.
You can see how like
desperation affects your
actions and a lot of businesses
you'll see
do this like one thing's not
working quite enough so then
they add another thing to
hopefully
bring up in more income and
that's not quite bringing
enough so they add another
thing and
they just keep adding more and
more stuff and more and more
stress to their lives.
But yeah for John it's easy he
's got no dependence and his
cost of living is low and he
had a
bunch of money saved up.
For him this isn't making or
break it it's like no I can
just if this doesn't work I'm
fine so that if you want to
make it easier I think lower
your expenses and save a bunch
of money or get someone to give
you a bunch of money or rob a
bank or whatever.
Yeah go the easier route.
I mean this is why privilege
plays such a big part in
business like some people do
they
get a they have a big trust
fund and they get a bunch of
money it does help.
Yeah I agree.
Yeah that makes sense.
So maybe as a last question we
could end with maybe you've
heard how I built this podcast
they always end with an
interesting question which is
so for you I'm just interested
in
hearing as well like with
transistor like where you guys
gotten so far how much do you
think of that was luck and how
much of it was you know you and
John's skill and talents
and hard work.
It's definitely the
accumulation of a lifetime of
experience and I think I think
your attitude
matters a lot in that right
like are you going to keep
going out and trying things are
you
going to keep going out and
trying to push the envelope are
you going to keep going out
and put things out in public
are you going to go out and
meet people like if you were
going to split test my life and
you put one Justin in his room
and he never leaves and
all he does is play Sonic the H
edgehog forever and then you
have another version where he's
like always going out and
trying to figure things out and
trying to build things and
trying to write and trying to
meet this person and for sure
in that A/B test you know
Justin
B wins there's I don't think it
's that's a it's not too
difficult to see that so yeah
there's a lot of luck and where
I was born and but you're the
the the influence of luck
starts to go down a lot like
the the the influence of blind
luck like just like where you
were
born like what what year and
country and location and
parents you were born to after
that part
you make your most of your luck
just by whatever attitude you
have every day there's still
some privilege that comes with
where you were born but most of
that kind of built in luck
is already happened by the time
you were born yeah cool well
thanks Justin for coming on
that was a good conversation
very helpful for both of us I'm
sure for our listeners as well
I didn't bum you out too much
no I mean sometimes you need a
little of that get you back
back
to the truth so yeah thanks
Justin and we'll see you guys
in another episode and we'll
put everything in the show
notes alright bye see ya
[BLANK_AUDIO]